[WIP] Port Platform Acceleration Lab for Java Developers to TDC Outcomes Series (#1193)
vmware-tanzu/tanzu-dev-portal: content/outcomes/cloud-native-development-in-practice/database-migrations.md

    for alternative installation instructions.

1.  Do the same on the test database.

    ```bash
    flyway -url="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/tracker_test" -locations=filesystem:databases/tracker clean migrate
    ```

1.  Inspect the databases with your favorite MySQL tool and verify that
    the new `time_entries` table looks correct.
    For example:

    ```bash
    mysql -u tracker
    ```

    ```sql
    use tracker_dev;
    describe time_entries;
    ```

    ```no-highlight
    +------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | Field      | Type         | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |
    +------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    | id         | bigint(20)   | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment |
    | project_id | bigint(20)   | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
    | user_id    | bigint(20)   | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
    | date       | date         | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
    | hours      | int(11)      | YES  |     | NULL    |                |
    +------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+
    ```

> ## Migrate on TAS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrate on Tanzu Application Service
```

    For zero downtime,
    rolling upgrades,
    this means your database changes must be backward compatible.

Implement the *improved* migration:

1.  Create a new Spring boot app named `pal-tracker-migrations`.
    Use Spring Boot with Flyway Integration to run the Flyway
    migrations.
    You can simplify the solution by bundling the Flyway migrations
    inside the application *resources* and reference from the
    classpath instead of the file system.
    See the following links for help:

    - [Spring Boot migrations](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#howto-use-a-higher-level-database-migration-tool)
    - [Flyway](https://flywaydb.org/documentation/usage/plugins/springboot)
    - [Baeldung migration tutorial](https://www.baeldung.com/database-migrations-with-flyway)
    - [TAS Overview - a better migration approach](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17NxY9m73TDW2aiXvCDMeV7y74ox2F4bnV8ye921c0VQ/view#slide=id.gb9790c5b4b_0_329)

1.  [Create a Cloud task](https://docs.pivotal.io/application-service/2-9/devguide/using-tasks.html)
    for your new migration and run it on TAS platform.

## Hints

> ### How do you create a database instance in TAS?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do you create a database instance in Tanzu Application Service?
```
